README.rst, before:

====================================
aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python
====================================
|Version| |Python| |Build| |License| |Docs|

.. |Build| image:: https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/actions/workflows/run-tests.yml/badge.svg?branch=main
    :target: https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/actions/workflows/run-tests.yml
    :alt: Build status
.. |Python| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python.svg?style=flat
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/
    :alt: Python Versions
.. |Version| image:: http://img.shields.io/pypi/v/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python.svg?style=flat
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/
    :alt: Package Version
.. |License| image:: http://img.shields.io/pypi/l/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python.svg?style=flat
    :target: https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/blob/main/LICENSE
    :alt: License
.. |Docs| image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/badge/?version=latest
    :target: https://aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?version=latest
    :alt: Documentation Status


This is an Amazon MSK Library in Python. This library provides a function to generates a base 64 encoded signed url
to enable authentication/authorization with an MSK Cluster.
The signed url is generated by using your IAM credentials.


* Free software: Apache Software License 2.0
* Documentation: #TODO

Features
--------

* Provides a function to generate auth token using IAM credentials from the AWS default credentials chain.
* Provides a function to generate auth token using IAM credentials from the AWS named profile.
* Provides a function to generate auth token using assumed IAM role's credentials.
* Provides a function to generate auth token using a CredentialProvider. The CredentialProvider should be inherited from botocore.credentials.CredentialProvider class.


Get Started
---------

* For installation, refer to `installation guide`_
.. _`installation guide`: docs/installation.rst


* In order to use the signer library with a Kafka client library with SASL/OAUTHBEARER mechanism, add the callback function in your code.

* For example, here is the sample code to use with `dpkp/kafka-python`_ library:

.. code-block:: python

    from kafka import KafkaProducer
    from kafka.errors import KafkaError
    import socket
    import time
    from aws_msk_iam_sasl_signer import MSKAuthTokenProvider

    class MSKTokenProvider():
        def token(self):
            return MSKAuthTokenProvider.generate_auth_token('<my aws region>')

    tp = MSKTokenProvider()

    producer = KafkaProducer(
        bootstrap_servers='<my bootstrap string>',
        security_protocol='SASL_SSL',
        sasl_mechanism='OAUTHBEARER',
        sasl_oauth_token_provider=tp,
        client_id=socket.gethostname(),
    )

    topic = "<my-topic>"
    while True:
        try:
            inp=input(">")
            producer.send(topic, inp.encode())
            producer.flush()
            print("Produced!")
        except Exception:
            print("Failed to send message:", e)

    producer.close()

* Here is a sample consumer with `confluent-kafka-python`_ library :

.. code-block:: python

    from confluent_kafka import Consumer
    import socket
    import time
    import traceback
    from aws_msk_iam_sasl_signer import MSKAuthTokenProvider

    def oauth_cb(oauth_config):
        return MSKAuthTokenProvider.generate_auth_token("<my aws region>"), time.time() + 900.0

    c = Consumer({
        "debug": "all",
        'bootstrap.servers': "<my bootstrap string>",
        'client.id': socket.gethostname(),
        'security.protocol': 'SASL_SSL',
        'sasl.mechanisms': 'OAUTHBEARER',
        'oauth_cb': oauth_cb,
        'group.id': 'mygroup',
        'auto.offset.reset': 'earliest'
    })

    c.subscribe(['<my-topic>'])

    print("Starting consumer!")

    while True:
        msg = c.poll(5)

        if msg is None:
            continue
        if msg.error():
            print("Consumer error: {}".format(msg.error()))
            continue
        print('Received message: {}'.format(msg.value().decode('utf-8')))

    c.close()

* In order to use a named profile to generate token, replace the token() function with code below :

.. code-block:: python

    class MSKTokenProvider():
        def token(self):
            oauth2_token = MSKAuthTokenProvider.generate_auth_token_from_profile('<your aws region>', '<named_profile>')
            return oauth2_token

* In order to use a role arn to generate token, replace the token() function with code below :

.. code-block:: python

    class MSKTokenProvider():
        def token(self):
            oauth2_token = MSKAuthTokenProvider.generate_auth_token_from_role_arn('<your aws region>', '<role_arn>')
            return oauth2_token


* In order to use a custom credentials provider, replace the token() function with code below :

.. code-block:: python

    class MSKTokenProvider():
        def token(self):
            oauth2_token = MSKAuthTokenProvider.generate_auth_token_from_credentials_provider('<your aws region>', '<your_credentials_provider')
            return oauth2_token


Running Tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can run tests in all supported Python versions using ``pytest``. By default,
it will run all of the unit tests.

.. code-block:: sh

    $ pytest

You can also run tests with setup.py:

.. code-block:: sh

    $ python setup.py test

To fix lint issues, run the pre-commit command:

.. code-block:: sh

    $ pre-commit run --all-files

To run tests with coverage information, run:

.. code-block:: sh

    $ coverage run --source=aws_msk_iam_sasl_signer.MSKAuthTokenProvider -m pytest tests/test_auth_token_provider.py
    $ coverage report -m

Getting Help
------------

Please use these community resources for getting help. We use the GitHub issues
for tracking bugs and feature requests.

* Ask a `question <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/discussions/new?category=q-a>`__ or open a `discussion <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/discussions/new?category=general>`__.
* If you think you may have found a bug, please open an `issue <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/issues/new/choose>`__.
* Open a support case with `AWS Support <http://docs.aws.amazon.com/awssupport/latest/user/getting-started.html>`__.

This repository provides a pluggable library with any Python Kafka client for SASL/OAUTHBEARER mechanism. For more information about SASL/OAUTHBEARER mechanism please go to `KIP 255 <https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=75968876>`__.

Opening Issues
------------

If you encounter a bug with the AWS MSK IAM SASL Signer for Python, we would like to hear about it.
Search the `Issues <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/issues>`__ and see
if others are also experiencing the same issue before opening a new issue. Please
include the version of AWS MSK IAM SASL Signer for Python, Python, and OS you’re using. Please
also include reproduction case when appropriate.

The GitHub issues are intended for bug reports and feature requests. For help
and questions with using AWS MSK IAM SASL Signer for Python, please make use of the resources listed
in the Getting Help section.
Keeping the list of open issues lean will help us respond in a timely manner.

Contributing
------------

We value feedback and contributions from our community. Whether it's a bug report, new feature, correction, or additional documentation, we welcome your issues and pull requests. Please read through this `CONTRIBUTING <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.rst>`__ document before submitting any issues or pull requests to ensure we have all the necessary information to effectively respond to your contribution.

More Resources
--------------

* `NOTICE <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/blob/main/NOTICE>`__
* `Changelog <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/blob/main/CHANGELOG.rst>`__
* `License <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/blob/main/LICENSE>`__
* `MSK Documentation <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/msk/latest/developerguide/getting-started.html>`__
* `Issues <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/issues>`__

Credits
-------

This package was created with Cookiecutter_ and the `audreyr/cookiecutter-pypackage`_ project template.

.. _Cookiecutter: https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter
.. _`audreyr/cookiecutter-pypackage`: https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter-pypackage
.. _`dpkp/kafka-python`: https://github.com/dpkp/kafka-python
.. _`confluent-kafka-python`: https://github.com/confluentinc/confluent-kafka-python

Commit message:

Add debug logging to indentify caller (#5)
Co-authored-by: Mohit Paliwal <mpaliwa@amazon.com>

README.rst, after:

====================================
aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python
====================================
|Version| |Python| |Build| |License| |Docs|

.. |Build| image:: https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/actions/workflows/run-tests.yml/badge.svg?branch=main
    :target: https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/actions/workflows/run-tests.yml
    :alt: Build status
.. |Python| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python.svg?style=flat
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/
    :alt: Python Versions
.. |Version| image:: http://img.shields.io/pypi/v/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python.svg?style=flat
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/
    :alt: Package Version
.. |License| image:: http://img.shields.io/pypi/l/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python.svg?style=flat
    :target: https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/blob/main/LICENSE
    :alt: License
.. |Docs| image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/badge/?version=latest
    :target: https://aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?version=latest
    :alt: Documentation Status


This is an Amazon MSK Library in Python. This library provides a function to generates a base 64 encoded signed url
to enable authentication/authorization with an MSK Cluster.
The signed url is generated by using your IAM credentials.


* Free software: Apache Software License 2.0
* Documentation: #TODO

Features
--------

* Provides a function to generate auth token using IAM credentials from the AWS default credentials chain.
* Provides a function to generate auth token using IAM credentials from the AWS named profile.
* Provides a function to generate auth token using assumed IAM role's credentials.
* Provides a function to generate auth token using a CredentialProvider. The CredentialProvider should be inherited from botocore.credentials.CredentialProvider class.


Get Started
---------

* For installation, refer to `installation guide`_
.. _`installation guide`: docs/installation.rst


* In order to use the signer library with a Kafka client library with SASL/OAUTHBEARER mechanism, add the callback function in your code.

* For example, here is the sample code to use with `dpkp/kafka-python`_ library:

.. code-block:: python

    from kafka import KafkaProducer
    from kafka.errors import KafkaError
    import socket
    import time
    from aws_msk_iam_sasl_signer import MSKAuthTokenProvider

    class MSKTokenProvider():
        def token(self):
            return MSKAuthTokenProvider.generate_auth_token('<my aws region>')

    tp = MSKTokenProvider()

    producer = KafkaProducer(
        bootstrap_servers='<my bootstrap string>',
        security_protocol='SASL_SSL',
        sasl_mechanism='OAUTHBEARER',
        sasl_oauth_token_provider=tp,
        client_id=socket.gethostname(),
    )

    topic = "<my-topic>"
    while True:
        try:
            inp=input(">")
            producer.send(topic, inp.encode())
            producer.flush()
            print("Produced!")
        except Exception:
            print("Failed to send message:", e)

    producer.close()

* Here is a sample consumer with `confluent-kafka-python`_ library :

.. code-block:: python

    from confluent_kafka import Consumer
    import socket
    import time
    import traceback
    from aws_msk_iam_sasl_signer import MSKAuthTokenProvider

    def oauth_cb(oauth_config):
        return MSKAuthTokenProvider.generate_auth_token("<my aws region>"), time.time() + 900.0

    c = Consumer({
        "debug": "all",
        'bootstrap.servers': "<my bootstrap string>",
        'client.id': socket.gethostname(),
        'security.protocol': 'SASL_SSL',
        'sasl.mechanisms': 'OAUTHBEARER',
        'oauth_cb': oauth_cb,
        'group.id': 'mygroup',
        'auto.offset.reset': 'earliest'
    })

    c.subscribe(['<my-topic>'])

    print("Starting consumer!")

    while True:
        msg = c.poll(5)

        if msg is None:
            continue
        if msg.error():
            print("Consumer error: {}".format(msg.error()))
            continue
        print('Received message: {}'.format(msg.value().decode('utf-8')))

    c.close()

* In order to use a named profile to generate token, replace the token() function with code below :

.. code-block:: python

    class MSKTokenProvider():
        def token(self):
            oauth2_token = MSKAuthTokenProvider.generate_auth_token_from_profile('<your aws region>', '<named_profile>')
            return oauth2_token

* In order to use a role arn to generate token, replace the token() function with code below :

.. code-block:: python

    class MSKTokenProvider():
        def token(self):
            oauth2_token = MSKAuthTokenProvider.generate_auth_token_from_role_arn('<your aws region>', '<role_arn>')
            return oauth2_token


* In order to use a custom credentials provider, replace the token() function with code below :

.. code-block:: python

    class MSKTokenProvider():
        def token(self):
            oauth2_token = MSKAuthTokenProvider.generate_auth_token_from_credentials_provider('<your aws region>', '<your_credentials_provider')
            return oauth2_token


Running Tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can run tests in all supported Python versions using ``pytest``. By default,
it will run all of the unit tests.

.. code-block:: sh

    $ pytest

You can also run tests with setup.py:

.. code-block:: sh

    $ python setup.py test

To fix lint issues, run the pre-commit command:

.. code-block:: sh

    $ pre-commit run --all-files

To run tests with coverage information, run:

.. code-block:: sh

    $ coverage run --source=aws_msk_iam_sasl_signer.MSKAuthTokenProvider -m pytest tests/test_auth_token_provider.py
    $ coverage report -m


Troubleshooting
------------
Finding out which identity is being used
------------
You may receive an Access denied error and there may be some doubt as to which credential is being exactly used. The credential may be sourced from a role ARN, EC2 instance profile, credential profile etc.
If the client side logging is set to DEBUG then the signer library will print a debug log of the form:

.. code-block:: sh

    Credentials Identity: {UserId: ABCD:test124, Account: 1234567890, Arn: arn:aws:sts::1234567890:assumed-role/abc/test124}


The log line provides the IAM Account, IAM user id and the ARN of the IAM Principal corresponding to the credential being used.

Getting Help
------------

Please use these community resources for getting help. We use the GitHub issues
for tracking bugs and feature requests.

* Ask a `question <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/discussions/new?category=q-a>`__ or open a `discussion <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/discussions/new?category=general>`__.
* If you think you may have found a bug, please open an `issue <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/issues/new/choose>`__.
* Open a support case with `AWS Support <http://docs.aws.amazon.com/awssupport/latest/user/getting-started.html>`__.

This repository provides a pluggable library with any Python Kafka client for SASL/OAUTHBEARER mechanism. For more information about SASL/OAUTHBEARER mechanism please go to `KIP 255 <https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=75968876>`__.

Opening Issues
------------

If you encounter a bug with the AWS MSK IAM SASL Signer for Python, we would like to hear about it.
Search the `Issues <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/issues>`__ and see
if others are also experiencing the same issue before opening a new issue. Please
include the version of AWS MSK IAM SASL Signer for Python, Python, and OS you’re using. Please
also include reproduction case when appropriate.

The GitHub issues are intended for bug reports and feature requests. For help
and questions with using AWS MSK IAM SASL Signer for Python, please make use of the resources listed
in the Getting Help section.
Keeping the list of open issues lean will help us respond in a timely manner.

Contributing
------------

We value feedback and contributions from our community. Whether it's a bug report, new feature, correction, or additional documentation, we welcome your issues and pull requests. Please read through this `CONTRIBUTING <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.rst>`__ document before submitting any issues or pull requests to ensure we have all the necessary information to effectively respond to your contribution.

More Resources
--------------

* `NOTICE <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/blob/main/NOTICE>`__
* `Changelog <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/blob/main/CHANGELOG.rst>`__
* `License <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/blob/main/LICENSE>`__
* `MSK Documentation <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/msk/latest/developerguide/getting-started.html>`__
* `Issues <https://github.com/aws/aws-msk-iam-sasl-signer-python/issues>`__

Credits
-------

This package was created with Cookiecutter_ and the `audreyr/cookiecutter-pypackage`_ project template.

.. _Cookiecutter: https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter
.. _`audreyr/cookiecutter-pypackage`: https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter-pypackage
.. _`dpkp/kafka-python`: https://github.com/dpkp/kafka-python
.. _`confluent-kafka-python`: https://github.com/confluentinc/confluent-kafka-python
